..
 This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported
 License.

 http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode

=======================
Nova Entity Transformer
=======================

https://blueprints.launchpad.net/vitrage/+spec/nova-entity-transformer

When an entity event is being introduced into Vitrage graph, it must
be transformed into a type which can be handled by the graph.
The Entity transformer is responsible for converting an entity event
into entity wrapper. Each entity type has his own transformer.

All transformers should be written in python and added to vitrage.conf.
The Entity Transformer Engine allows a service provider to extend
support for other entities by writing a designated transformer for each
entity type.

The first transformers to implement are:

* Nova Instance transformer
* Nova Host transformer

Problem description
===================

In Vitrage graph, each (instance of an) entity is represented as a vertex.
Therefore, the output of a transformer is a vertex for the given entity
(an "entity vertex").
In addition, the transformer also returns a list of (vertex, edge)-pairs.
The vertex in each pair describes a neighbor with limited properties, and the
edge represents the connection between both vertices, describing their
relationship.

There are different Entity Types that should be supported by Vitrage:

* Openstack types (Nova.instance, Nova.host and etc.)
* Non-Openstack types (Nagios tests, Physical resources and etc.)

Note: in Vitrage Graph, each vertex contains a dictionary of key-value pairs
which represents the entity properties. Similarly, each edge contains a
dictionary of key-value pairs which represents aspects of the relation between
two vertices.


Proposed change
===============

When the Entity Processor receives a new entity event, it asks the Entity
Transformer to convert the event into an object which the processor can then
enter into the Vitrage Graph.

Transformer Operation: When receiving an entity event, the Transformer Engine
first recognizes the entity type and accordingly activates the corresponding
transformer. Each transformer inherits from the Transformer base class and
implements the three methods:

* Method that returns an entity wrapper
* Method that returns key fields and their order.The key fields are mandatory
* Method that returns a key by given an entity event

*************
Output Object
*************

The transformer returns an Entity Wrapper, which is a tuple containing an
entity vertex and a list of (vertex,edge) pairs that describe the entity
neighbors (relationships).

**Entity (source) vertex description:**

Mandatory properties:

* ``key`` - For Openstack entities this is the Openstack ID. For non-Openstack
   entities this is an ID which will generated by Vitrage
* ``Type`` - Resource \ Physical Resource \ Alarm \ Tests Results
* ``Sub Type`` -  Alarm Name, host, instance, switch and etc.
* ``Entity Name``
* ``Is Deleted``- needed for graph maintenance and marks items that can be
   gathered by the garbage collector

Optional properties (vertex metadata)

* ``State``
* ``Project ID``

The optional properties list is flexible and can be changed as needed.
In addition, each entity type can have its own relevant properties.

**(vertex, edge) Pairs:**

The pair describes a entity’s neighbor vertex and their relationship.
Relationships can be both physical, virtual or (in the future) logical

``Target vertex description``:

The vertex in the pair must have sufficient data to help specify uniquely
which vertex in the Vitrage Graph will be connected to this entity.
Currently, the minimal information needed for this is:

* ID - For each entity, must have the data which vertex it connects
* Type - Resource \ Physical Resource \ Alarm \ Tests Results
* Sub Type -  Alarm Name, host, instance, switch and etc.

``Edge description``:

* Source ID  Entity ID
* Target ID - For each entity, must have the data which vertex it connects
* Relation Type  - contains, run, attached and etc.

**Event Type:**

The type of the event as it happened. Possible options:

* CREATE - New entity is created
* UPDATE - The entity has been updated
* DELETE  - When the entity is deleted

Alternatives
------------

None

Data model impact
-----------------

TBD

REST API impact
---------------

None

Versioning impact
-----------------

None

Other end user impact
---------------------

None

Deployer impact
---------------

TBD

Developer impact
----------------

TBD

Horizon impact
--------------

None


Implementation
==============

Assignee(s)
-----------

liat har-tal


Work Items
----------
None


Dependencies
============

None


Testing
=======

All code will be tested


Documentation Impact
====================

None


References
==========

Vitrage project <https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Vitrage>